From the standpoint of functional safety,
software development involves four main tasks.
The first task is developing software safety requirements.
The second task is to specify a software architecture.
Then, the third task is to test
the software to make sure that the architecture meets the requirements.
Lastly, software is integrated with hardware.
These four tasks might look familiar.
They are the same four steps we've discussed previously for all levels of the V-diagram.
Where do software safety requirements come from?
Many software safety requirements are
derived directly from the technical safety requirements.
In general, these requirements cover functions that
enables the system to maintain or reach a safe state.
Functions for detecting, indicating,
and handling faults in both hardware and software.
Typical software safety requirements might be based on
timing constraints such as fault tolerant time intervals.
Warning light functionality is also often associated with software safety requirements.
Communication interfaces like CAN, Ethernet connections,
or user interfaces are also commonly solved with software safety requirements.
In the text below we will derive
a few software safety requirements from
the lane departure warning technical safety requirements.
And then we'll allocate at these requirements to the architecture.
Keep in mind that there is no such thing as a separate safety software architecture.
The safety software requirements are
allocated to the overall product architectural design.
Besides technical safety requirements,
there are a few other sources of
software safety requirements that we will talk about in the next part of the.